---  
share: true  
aliases:  
  - 2024-05-18  
title: 2024-05-18  
URL: https://bagrounds.org/reflections/2024-05-18  
Author: "[[bryan-grounds]]"  
tags:   
---  
[Home](../index.md) > [Reflections](./index.md) | [⏮️](./2024-05-13.md)  
# 2024-05-18  
## CodinGame: [Mad Pod Racing](https://www.codingame.com/multiplayer/bot-programming/mad-pod-racing)  
Exciting!  
I  was very interested when I learned about [PID controllers](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proportional-integral-derivative_controller) in college, but I've never gotten around to implementing one.  
I've finally found an application that's literally asking for it!   
I wrote a simple, intuitive control algorithm to drive my bot last night.  
I'm impressed with the performance of such a similar algorithm!  
But I'm excited to apply some rigor and see how much juice we can squeeze from theory.  
I revisit one of my favorites YouTube channels for a refresher on [PID application](https://youtu.be/XfAt6hNV8XM)  
PID controllers are nice because they are simple and effective.  
We just need to determine a couple of modeling assumptions to get started.  
A PID controller aims to minimize an error signal by manipulating a control variable.  
For this application, a good initial choice for the control variable is obvious: thrust!  
Deciding on an error signal to minimize is more nuanced.  
In my intuitive control algorithm, I used the angle between my pop's aim and the next checkpoint as a sort of error signal.  
I reduce the thrust proportionally to this angle.  
If the angle is zero, we're pointed at the target, so it's full speed ahead!  
If there's a big angle between our pod's aim and the checkpoint, we're not headed in the right direction, so we may want to slow down.  
That was my thinking anyway.  
I suspect there may be better choices for error signals, as the point of a race isn't just to point in the right direction.  
But I think this will serve as a good enough starting point while we implement our first PID controller!  
We can always iterate and tune when we have the infrastructure in place.   
Also, I suspect that my intuitive algorithm is basically a propotional controller (the P in PID) and it works pretty well already.  
Let's see how much it improves with the addition of integral and derivative signals (I and D, respectively).  
  
A Google search led me to a nice, simple [reference implementation](https://softinery.com/blog/implementation-of-pid-controller-in-python) to get started.  
```python  
def PID(Kp, Ki, Kd, setpoint, measurement):  
    global time, integral, time_prev, e_prev  
  
    # Value of offset - when the error is equal zero  
    offset = 320  
      
    # PID calculations  
    e = setpoint - measurement  
          
    P = Kp*e  
    integral = integral + Ki*e*(time - time_prev)  
    D = Kd*(e - e_prev)/(time - time_prev)  
  
    # calculate manipulated variable - MV   
    MV = offset + P + integral + D  
      
    # update stored data for next iteration  
    e_prev = e  
    time_prev = time  
    return MV  
```  
  
Any easy read at 11 lines of Python!  
This should only take a few minutes to translate, and maybe a half hour or so to get up and running in our pod racer.  
