---
share: true
aliases:
  - 2024-06-14
title: 2024-06-14
URL: https://bagrounds.org/reflections/2024-06-14
Author: "[[bryan-grounds]]"
tags: 
---
[Home](../index.md) > [Reflections](./index.md) | [⏮️](./2024-06-13.md) [⏭️](./2024-06-15.md)  
# 2024-06-14  
## 📖 Education  
🚂 Starting a new book: [The Staff Engineer's Path](../books/the-staff-engineers-path.md)  
⭐ [Answering Behavioral Interview Questions Using the STAR Method](../videos/answering-behavioral-interview-questions-using-the-star-method.md)  
  
## 📝 Interview Prep  
Today I spoke with a friend about what kinds of behavioral questions I should expect and what interviewers are looking for.  
  
### Example Prompts and Questions  
- Tell me about a time when you disagreed with a coworker.  
- Tell me about a time when you convinced your manager.  
- Tell me about a time when you got constructive feedback.  
- Tell me about a time when you had to make a decision with incomplete information.  
- Tell me about the project you're most proud of.  
- Tell me about a time  when your manager asked you to do something that you didn't think was the highest priority.  
- Tell me about a time when two teams couldn't agree on a path forward.  
- Tell me about a time when you had to make a quick decision and live with the consequences.  
- Regarding a story you told, what did you learn?  
- Regarding a story you told, what would you do differently?  
- Why are you looking for a new job?  
- Why did you choose your last job?  
- Why do you want to work here?  
  
### Some traits they're trying to identify in the stories we tell  
- Personality traits  
  - Perseverance  
  - Empathy  
  - Motivation  
  - Growth mindset  
- Problem solving  
  - Getting buy in with teammates and stakeholders  
  - Dealing with ambiguity  
  - Considering trade offs  
  - Framing problems with sufficient context  
  - Supporting decisions with data and metrics  
  - Leveraging feedback loops to aid understand over time  
  - Decomposing large projects and effectively iterating toward goals  
- Learning from experiences  
- Conflict resolution  
  - Understanding when to escalate or deescalate  
  - Seeking a third party arbiter  
  - Demonstrating empathy  
